.\" det2nx
.\" Contact Eugen Wintersberger <eugen.wintersberger@desy.de> for typos and corrections
.TH det2nx 1 "10.06.2013" "" "User commands"
.SH NAME
det2nx - add single image detector data to a Nexus file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B det2nx [OPTIONS] FILE [FILE ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdet2nx\fR adds detector data stored in single image files to an image stack
in a Nexus file. Single files can be added as well as whole ranges of files.
See the \fIpni-tools\fR man page for details about how to enter file ranges. 
The Nexus file and the field in the file can be passed with the \fB\-t\fR
option. See \fIpni-tools\fR for details how to specifiy a Nexus path.

.SH OPTIONS
The programm takes the following options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR,\fB\-\-help\fR
print short program help
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
produce verbose output
.TP
\fB\-\-overwrite\fR
Newly create the file if it exists.
.TP
\fB\-\-deflate=[LEVEL]\fR
Use deflate algorithm (zip) for compression. The compression level is given by
\fILEVEL\fR.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-target=[NEXUSTARGET]\fR
Defines the Nexus field where the data should be stored. 

.SH EXIT CODE
0 in the case of success, 1 otherwise

.SH EXAMPLES
The usage of the program is rather easy. 
.IP
$> TARGET=file.nx:///entry:NXentry/instrument:NXinstrument/detector:NXdetector/data

$> SOURCE=$HOME/data/detector/files_%05i.cbf:1:1000

$> det2nx -t$TARGET $SOURCE
.P
As shown in the first line the target field in the Nexus file is specified by a
standard Nexus path. If the file or some of the groups do not exist they will be
created automatically. In cases that the file and the data file already exists
the data will be appended.
If data should not be appended use the \fB\-\-overwrite\fR option like this
.IP
$> det2nx --overwrite -t$TARGET $SOURCE
.P
To add compression use 
.IP
$> det2nx --deflate=5 -t$TARGET $SOURCE
.P
which enables deflate compression, here with a compression level of 5.

.SH AUTHOR
Written bei Eugen Wintersberger <eugen.wintersberger@desy.de>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2013 Eugen Wintersberger License GLPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later
<http://gnu.org/license/gpl.html>.  This is free software: you are free to
change and redistribute it. There is no WARRENTY, to the extent permitted by
law.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \fBpni-tools\fR 




