.\" detinfo
.\" Contact Eugen Wintersberger <eugen.wintersberger@desy.de> for typos and corrections
.TH detinfo 1 "29.01.2013" "@PROGRAM_VERSION@" "User commands"
.SH NAME
detinfo - prints detector information from files to standard output

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B detinfo [OPTIONS] FILE [FILE ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdetinfo\fR prints information about detector data stored in files 
to standard output using various formats.
Currently \fBdetinfo\fR supports the following file formats:
.RS 3 
.P
 - CBF - the DECTRIS flavor used for Pilatus detectors
.br
 - TIF - used by many other detectors to hold data
.br
 - Nexus using HDF5 as a storage backend.
.RE
.P
The parameters \fBdetinfo\fR retrieves are 
.RS 3
.P 
- the path to the data (file path and/or Nexus object path)
.br
- the number of frames stored in the file or NXdetector group
.br
- the number of elements along each dimension of a single detector frame
.br
- the pixel data type
.br
- the detector type
.RE
.P
Possible detector types are \fBpoint\fR, \fBlinear\fR, and \fBarea\fR.
.P 
For TIF and CBF files \fBdetinfo\fR assumes that all the data in a file belongs
to a single detector. However, Nexus files are slightly different as they can
store data from several detectors in a single file. In this case, the
information listed above is shown for each instance of NXdetector available in
the file.  A typical application of \fBdetinfo\fR would be to gather all the
information required to merge data from single TIF or CBF files into a Nexus
file.  As with all programs from the \fBpni-tools\fR-package input files can be
specified as individual files and/or as a file template with a numeric range.
For details see the info page for pni-tools how to do this.

.SH OPTIONS
The programm takes the following options:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR,\fB\-\-help\fR
print short program help
.TP
\fB\-f\fR,\fB\-\-format\fR
select the output format. Currently this option can take the following values
.RS
.P
\fBsimple\fR   - producing simple output 
.br
\fBcsv\fR      - format output as CSV table 
.br
\fBkeyvalue\fR - format output as key-value pairs
.br
\fBxml\fR      - format output as XML
.RE

.SH EXIT CODE
0 in the case of success, 1 otherwise

.SH AUTHOR
Written bei Eugen Wintersberger <eugen.wintersberger@desy.de>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2013 Eugen Wintersberger License GLPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later
<http://gnu.org/license/gpl.html>.  This is free software: you are free to
change and redistribute it. There is no WARRENTY, to the extent permitted by
law.

.SH SEE ALSO
A more detailed description can be found consulting the infor pages of 
the \fBpnitools\fR package 
.RS 3
.P 
    \fBinfo pni-tools\fR
.RE
.P
or the info page of \fBdetinfo\fR
.RS 3
.P
    \fBinfo detinfo\fR
.RE



