
@command{datgen} is a program primarily intended to produce test data for other
programs. It allows the generation of all kind of input data via different
generators. Multiple generators can be used simultaneously in which case the
result will be a superposition of the signals produced by the different
generators. The basic calling convention for @command{datgen} looks like this

@example
$ datgen [GLOBAL OPTIONS] [GENERATOR [GENERATOR OPTIONS]] ...
@end example

@noindent
The first options passed to the program are global options which determine the
overall behavior of the @command{datgen}. They are common to all generators. 
Subsequent to the global options follows the name of the first data generator
along with its specific options.

All data is computed on a regular grid (currently only one dimensional data is
supported). The following data generators are available at the moment

@table @asis
@item uniform 
This generator produces random data uniformly distributed within a given range. 
@item gauss
A gaussian bell curve generator. Virtually all parameters of the Gaussian can be
setup via command line options. 
@item linear
A linear generator which could be quite useful to model background. 
@end table
@noindent
Each generator can produced either 64Bit integer or floating point numbers. 
The same generator can be used multiple times within the generator chain. 
If the @command{uniform} generator is somewhere involved in the chain using the
@option{--repeat=n} can be useful. This optoin repeats the computation @math{n}
times. For a uniform distribution one would get @math{n} different results.

@subsection Datatypes

The data generator currently produced integer or floating point numbers. Which
one is used can be adjusted with the global option @option{-t} by setting its
value either to @option{int} or @option{float}. In the former case the results
are computed as 64 bit singed integer numbers while in the latter case 64 bit
floating point numbers are used. 

In fact, all computations are carried out with 64 bit floating point numbers.
When the results are requested as integer values the floating point results are
rounded to the next integer. 

@subsection Producing output

By default data is written to standard output. The @option{-o} can be used to
redirect the output directory to a file. Currently only ASCII files are
supported. In future one can also maybe write Nexus files directly.
@command{datgen} writes a two column output. The first column holds the
@math{x}-values while the second the generated data. 

@subsection Program options

@subsubsection Global program options
@command{nxls} accepts the following command line arguments
@table @samp

@item -h
@itemx --help
print short program help

@item -b
@itemx --begin=START
start value along the x grid

@item -e
@itemx --end=STOP
last value along the x grid

@item -s
@itemx --steps=STEPS
number of steps along x

@item -r 
@itemx --repeat=REPEATS
Repeat the signal calculation. This option only makes sense if the
@command{uniform} generator is involved in the generator chain. Otherwise the
program would simply reproduce the data.

@item -oOUTFILE
@itemx --output=OUTFILE
determins the file where to write the results. If omitted the results are written
to standard output.

@item -t 
@itemx --type=TYPECODE
Can be either @command{int} or @command{float}. 

@end table

@subsubsection Options for the @command{uniform} generator

@table @samp

@item -u
@itemx --upper=UPPER_BOUND
The upper bound for the random numbers

@itemx -l
@itemx --lower=LOWER_BOUND
The lower bound for the random numbers

@end table
@noindent 
These two parameters completely define the random number generator. The random
numbers lie in the closed interval defined by these two values.

@subsubsection Options for the @command{gauss} generator

@table @samp

@item -s
@itemx --sigma=SIGMA
The variance of the normal distribution with default value @math{1}.

@item -m
@itemx --mu=MU
the expectation value with default value @math{0}.

@item -a
@itemx --amplitude=AMP
The amplitude of the Gauss function. The default value is @math{1}.

@end table
@noindent
What this generator computes is basically a Gauss- or Normaldistribution. 
@tex
$$
    g(x) =  {{A}\over{\sigma}\sqrt{2\pi}}
    e^{-{{1}\over{2}}({{x-\mu}\over{\sigma}})^2}
$$
@end tex
@noindent
where the amplitude @math{A} is determined by @option{-a}, the variance
@math{\sigma} by @option{-s}, and the expectation value @math{\mu} by
@option{-m}.

@subsubsection Options for the @command{linear} generator

@table @samp

@item -s
@item --slope=SLOPE
The slope of the linear function with default value @math{1}.

@item -o
@itemx --offset=OFFSET
The offset of the linear function with default value @math{0}.

@end table 
@noindent
This generator computes 
@tex
$$
    g(x) = k\times x+d
$$
@end tex
@noindent 
where the slope @math{k} is determined by @option{-s} and the offset @math{d} by
@option{-o}.

@subsection Examples

