
@command{det2nx} is a program for merging single image detector files into a
Nexus file. Program invocation follows the convention

@example
det2nx [OPTIONS] INPUT-FILES
@end example

@noindent
where @var{INPUT-FILES} specifies the input files as described in 
@ref{Input file selection}.

@command{det2nx} adds detector data stored in single image files to an image stack
in a Nexus file. Single files can be added as well as whole ranges of files.
The Nexus file and the field in the file can be passed with the @option{-t}
option. 

@menu
* det2nx_options:: command line options description
* det2nx_examples:: usage examples
@end menu


@node det2nx_options
@subsection Program options

Currently the following command line options are allowed
@table @samp
@item -h
@itemx --help
print short program help

@item -v
@itemx --verbose
produce verbose output

@item --overwrite
Newly create the file if it exists.

@item --deflate=@var{LEVEL}
Use deflate algorithm (zip) for compression. The compression level is determined
by @var{ILEVEL}

@item -t@var{NEXUSTARGET}
@item --target=@var{NEXUSTARGET}
Defines the Nexus field where the data should be stored. 
@end table

@node det2nx_examples
@subsection Examples

The usage of the program is rather easy. 

@example
$ TARGET=file.nx:///:NXentry/:NXinstrument/detector:NXdetector/data
$ SOURCE=$HOME/data/detector/files_%05i.cbf:1:1000
$ det2nx -t$TARGET $SOURCE
@end example

@noindent
As shown in the first line the target field in the Nexus file is specified by a
standard Nexus path. If the file or some of the groups do not exist they will be
created automatically. In cases that the file and the data file already exists
the data will be appended.
If data should not be appended use the @option{--overwrite} option like this

@example
$ det2nx --overwrite -t$TARGET $SOURCE
@end example

@noindent
To add compression use 

@example
$> det2nx --deflate=5 -t$TARGET $SOURCE
@end example

@noindent
which enables deflate compression, here with a compression level of 5.

