
@command{nxtee} is a NeXus utility program quite similar to the standard Unix
@command{tee} utility. It reads data from standard input and writes it to a 
NeXus object. Calling @command{nxtee} is fairly simple

@example
$ nxtee  NEXUSPATH 
@end example

@noindent
The program requires no additional command line options. All data received via 
standard input is appended to the NeXus object referenced by @var{NEXUSPATH}. 
As standard input can only provided a linear stream of data @command{nxtee}
makes some assumptions about how this data is appended to the target object.
Furthermore there are some limitations in particular when dealing with string
data. 
@itemize @bullet
@item
for the NeXus object, @command{nxtee} assumes that the first dimension runs over
the number of entries in the particular field. In other words, in order to
append the field is grown along the first dimension.
@item 
every line (stream of data terminated with a newline) is assumed to represent a
single entry.
@item 
string data can only be written to one dimensional fields where every input line 
is interpreted as a single element.
@item 
the target object mus already exist. This is necessary as the existing field
determines the type of data parsed from standard input.
@item 
one can write only to one object. 
@end itemize


@subsection Program options

@command{nxls} accepts the following command line arguments
@table @samp
@item -h
@itemx --help
print short program help
@item -b
@itemx --begin=[BEGINCHAR]
In the case of multidimensional input this denotes the starting charachter
@item -e
@itemx --end=[ENDCHAR]
Terminal symbol for line input
@item -s
@itemx --separator=[SEPCHAR]
separator character for the different entries
@item -r
@item --replace 
overwrite the data in an already existing field. If used, the input data must
exactly match the size of the field (so that the total content can be written).
@item -a
@itemx --append
append data to an existing field. This is the default action
@end table

@subsection Examples

@subsubsection Simple scalar and one dimensional data

The simplest application is also one of the most typical ones. Lets assume that
we want to write the name of the sample in a NeXus file. This can easily be done
with

@smallexample
$ echo "S10234_01" | nxtee -r test.nxs://:NXentry/:NXsample/name
$ nxcat test.nxs://:NXentry/:NXsample/name
S10234_01
@end smallexample
@noindent
In this case we replace the current content of the @option{name} field with the
new data provided by standard input. A typical application would be when
creating a file from a template and then change the relevant fields to match the
current situation.

Appending some motor positions to an existing field
@smallexample
$ BASE=test.nxs://:NXentry/:NXinstrument/:NXdetector
$ printf "1.5\n2.0\n3.2\n4.2" | nxtee -a $BASE/theta
@end smallexample
@noindent
Alternatively one can do this also from a file 
@smallexample
$ BASE=test.nxs://:NXentry/:NXinstrument/:NXdetector
$ nxtee -a $BASE/theta < theta.dat
@end smallexample
@noindent
with @file{theta.dat} having content like this 
@smallexample
1.5
2.3
4.5
6.7
@end smallexample
@noindent
This approach can be used to easily copy data from an ASCII to a NeXus file.

@command{nxtee} not only handles NeXus fields but also attributes. This is
particularly useful with the @command{units} attribute of fields. 

@smallexample
$ BASE=test.nxs://:NXentry/:NXinstrument/:NXdetector
$ echo "m" | nxtee -r $BASE/distance@@units 
@end smallexample
@noindent
where a unit can be altered, for instance according to a new hardware setup. 

@subsubsection Working with multidimensional data

Multidimensional data requires a bit more work. Lets start with an example where
the @command{vector} transformation attribute of a field should be altered. 
This can simple be done with
@smallexample
$ BASE=test.nxs://:NXentry/:NXinstrument/:NXdetector/:NXtransformation
$ echo "0 0 1" | nxtee -r $BASE/omega@@vector
@end smallexample
@noindent
Note here that the elements of the input data separated only by a whitespace not
by a newline character. 
In the next example we consider a two dimensional field where the first
dimension represents the number of measurement points and the second the number
of item recorded at each point (in this case only three). 
If we would like to add additional data from an ASCII file we could use the 
same procedure as shown above for the simple motor data
@smallexample
$ BASE=test.nxs://:NXentry/:NXsample
$ nxtee -a $BASE/velocities < velocities.dat
@end smallexample
@noindent
where the data in @file{velocities.dat} is organized like this
@smallexample
0.0 2.e-2 3.42
0.2 1.e-2 9.33
0.4 3.e-3 0.98
@end smallexample
@noindent
note again that the every line represents a data item along the second dimension
of the target NeXus field.
